Cisplatin is a well-known chemotherapeutic drug applied for the treatment of numerous human cancers. However, the use of cisplatin in clinic is limited by certain serious side effects, such as nephrotoxicity. Unfortunately, there is currently no effective therapeutic approach to prevent cisplatin-induced AKI. Increasing evidence suggests that apoptosis of tubular epithelial cells and renal inflammation mainly determine the progression and outcome of cisplatin-induced AKI. Asiatic acid (AA) has been reported have the functions of anti-inflammation and anti-apoptosis, etc. But the effects of AA on kidney injury induced by cisplatin are still not known. The current study aimed to determine the potential renoprotective effects of AA on kidney injury induced by cisplatin. Twenty-four C57BL/6 male mice were randomly divided into four groups: normal control (CON), cisplatin-induced AKI (CIS), AKI with 50?mg/kg AA pretreatment (CIS?+?AA50), and AKI with 100?mg/kg AA pretreatment (CIS?+?AA100). Mice were anesthetized and sacrificed at 72?h after the cisplatin injection. Blood and kidney samples were collected for analyses. Compared with CON mice, cisplatin-treated mice exhibited severe tubular necrosis and elevated serum creatinine level. However, AA pretreatment (50?mg/kg or 100?mg/kg) markedly suppressed the elevated serum creatinine, blood urea nitrogen and histological changes. Moreover, AA pretreatment notably downregulated tubular expression of kidney injury molecule-1 (KIM-1) and the number of apoptotic cells, and upregulated the expression of the apoptosis inhibitor survivin and promoted tubular proliferation as evidenced by an increase in the number of proliferating cell nuclear antigen-positive cells. In addition, AA suppressed the enhanced mRNA expression of proinflammatory cytokines IL-1ß, TNF-a, MCP-1 and caspase-1 in the kidneys. Furthermore, AA pretreatment inhibited NF-?B activation and the inflammatory response, which may result from Smad7 up-regulation. In conclusion, AA protects against cisplatin-induced AKI via anti-apoptosis and anti-inflammation.